Sorts To Do 4


Urban Dictionary Daily Add
On his off days, Kris volunteers at UrbanDictionary.com, because it makes him feel hip and fresh. Their collection is about 8 million words, and they receive 2000 new words a day. Because they want to keep their data hip and fresh, they incorporate any new words within minutes of submittal, re-sorting their entire collection every five minutes. Kris notices that only about 7 words are added each time they sort. He’s thinking selection sort (their current design) might not be the best choice. What do you think?



Pancake Sort
Christopher Burns has successfully defied his last name, cooking a wonderful breakfast for the entire Dojo without singeing a single flapjack. Now you have a large stack of pancakes of varying sizes, ready to serve. You believe you should first sort them from smallest (on top) to widest (on bottom), as syrup pours best that way – plus, it reminds you of the Towers of Hanoi (Minh’s favorite recursive problem).

Your only tool is a spatula that you can insert below any pancake, to flip it and all pancakes above. Pancake sizes are represented in an array: for example, 4 pancakes already stacked from smallest to biggest would be [1,2,3,4]. If you insert the spatula between second and third pancakes, then flipped, the stack would now be [2,1,3,4]. Given an arbitrarily large stack of N pancakes, how many spatula flips will it take to sort the pancakes into width-order? Design a high-performance algorithm, because everyone is getting hungry…



Radix Sort
For an array 7 million long with values from 0 to 4 billion, how rapidly can you radix-sort it in-place? You can create a new array as large as the original. What are the run-time complexity and the space complexity of this solution, and does it depend on the values you are sorting?



Belt Sort
Given an array of objects representing students, where each student object has .belt attribute, sort in-place so all students with the same belt are adjacent, in order “none”, “yellow”, “red”, “black”, “double-black”, “triple-black” and “triple-black plus blue”. Dojo students (or their belt records) are not just numbers, so naïve sorts might not work…



Wiggle Sort
A sequence of numbers is “wiggle-sorted” if the differences between each successive value always alternate between positive and negative. Equal values should not be adjacent. Given an array of numerical values, wiggle-sort the array. What is the Big-O of your run-time performance?



Median of Unsorted Array
Create a function that determines the median of an array of unsorted values. When Sosho claimed he could ‘name that tune’ in just O(N), the Dojo was all aflutter. Any solution is fine, but doing this in O(N) has been agreed-upon across the industry as an ‘interesting problem’.

