Strings to Do 9
Let’s revisit strings with recursion in mind. Recursion is often quite valuable, as shown in this chapter.



String: Rotate String
Create a standalone function that accepts a string and an integer, and rotates the characters in the string to the right by that amount. Example: given ("Boris Godunov",5), you should return "dunovBoris Go".




Censor
Create a function that, given string and array of ‘naughty words’, returns new string with naughty words changed to “x” chars. Given ("Snap crackle pop nincompoop!", ["crack","poop"]), you should return "Snap xxxxxle pop nincomxxxx!" (after giggling a little bit).

Second: handle capitalization appropriately.



String: ionIs Rotat (Is Rotation)
 Create the function isRotation(str1,str2) that returns whether the second string is a rotation of the first. Would you change your implementation if you knew that the two were usually entirely unrelated?



Bad Characters
Given two strings, the second string contains characters that must be removed from the first. Return string formed by removing any instances of those characters from the first string.




Genetic Marker
Create a function that, given an array of strings and a string, returns a boolean whether the string is found anywhere in the array of strings. Note: strings found in the array might contain the ‘?’ wild-card character, signifying that it can represent any character needed in order to complete a match.



Optimal Sequence
You will be given an array of strings. All of these strings are the same length, and all contain only upper-case alphabetical characters or the ‘?’ character. The ‘?’ is a single-character wild-card; you can change it into any character needed. Return the sequence of words satisfying the following constraints:

From first word to last word, each column of letters must be in alphabetical order.
All question-mark characters must be expanded into their explicit values in the return array.
If more than one solution exists, return the one with lower overall alphabetical value.
If no solution exists, return null.
Examples: given the array ["EA?K","?RX?","GAG?"], return ["EAAK","GAGK","GRXK"]. For the array ["?F??","W??S","??X?"], your function should return ["AAXA","AFXA","WFXS"]. For an input of ["?UD","FI?","A?E"], return null.


